# Styling

## 📝 Your Notes

#### className Props
``` <div className={"All className styles separated by space in on set of double quotes"}```

#### style prop
Just note that this is where the `{{styles}}` will happen.

##### 🤔❓ Should styles stay together if they need to go across multiple components? How does MC do it?

#### 💫💫💫💫💫 Extra Credit 1 💫💫💫💫💫💫

##### 🤔❓ Do we use ...otherProps in MC?

`style = ''` ➡️ Do this because you don't want to see 'undefined' in the DOM structure

#### 💫💫💫💫💫 Extra Credit 2 💫💫💫💫💫💫

##### 🤔❓ Am I missing something with my implementation?

Recall Arrow functions
```
const variable = (Parameters) => {
    statement/expression
}
```
but also, when passing 'props'. you have to destructure:

```
const variable = ({destructuredParameter}) => {
    return JSX statement/expresison {deconstruction}
}
```

🤔 Extra Credit 1

functions work as type in `React.createElement`, so pass
like so:
```aidl
React.createElement(functionCall, destructuredParameters)
```
❓ Why do we destructure React.creatElement?
recall the same thing was done in the original exercise

🤔 Extra Credit 2
To turn a function into a JSX/React component, you MUST 
capatalize component name. 

```
const Variable = ({parameters}) => {
    statement/expression {parameters}
}
```

When calling the parameter, you need to just call it:
```<Variable>argument</Variable>```

This will allow you to nest components!

## Background

There are two primary ways to style react components

1. Inline styles with the `style` prop
2. Regular CSS with the `className` prop

**About the `style` prop:**

- In HTML you'd pass a string of CSS:

```html
<div style="margin-top: 20px; background-color: blue;"></div>
```

- In React, you'll pass an object of CSS:

```jsx
<div style={{marginTop: 20, backgroundColor: 'blue'}} />
```

Note that in react the `{{` and `}}` is actually a combination of a JSX
expression and an object expression. The same example above could be written
like so:

```jsx
const myStyles = {marginTop: 20, backgroundColor: 'blue'}
<div style={myStyles} />
```

Note also that the property names are `camelCased` rather than `kebab-cased`.
This matches the `style` property of DOM nodes (which is a
[`CSSStyleDeclaration`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSSStyleDeclaration)
object).

**About the `className` prop:**

As we discussed earlier, in HTML, you apply a class name to an element with the
`class` attribute. In JSX, you use the `className` prop.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/05.js)
- [Final](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/05.js)

In this exercise we'll use both methods for styling react components.

We have the following css on the page:

```css
.box {
  border: 1px solid #333;
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: center;
  text-align: center;
}
.box--large {
  width: 270px;
  height: 270px;
}
.box--medium {
  width: 180px;
  height: 180px;
}
.box--small {
  width: 90px;
  height: 90px;
}
```

Your job is to apply the right className and style props to the divs below so
the styles applied match the text content.

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 Create a custom component

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/05.extra-1.js)

Try to make a custom `<Box />` component that renders a div, accepts all the
props and merges the given `style` and `className` props with the shared values.

I should be able to use it like so:

```jsx
<Box className="box--small" style={{backgroundColor: 'lightblue'}}>
  small lightblue box
</Box>
```

The `box` className and `fontStyle: 'italic'` style should be applied in
addition to the values that come from props.

### 2. 💯 accept a size prop to encapsulate styling

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/05.extra-2.js)

It's great that we're composing the `className`s and `style`s properly, but
wouldn't it be better if the users of our components didn't have to worry about
which class name to apply for a given effect? Or that a class name is involved
at all? I think it would be better if users of our component had a `size` prop
and our component took care of making the box that size.

In this extra credit, try to make this API work:

```jsx
<Box size="small" style={{backgroundColor: 'lightblue'}}>
  small lightblue box
</Box>
```

## Attribution

[Matt Zabriskie](https://twitter.com/mzabriskie) developed this example
originally for
[a workshop we gave together.](https://github.com/mzabriskie/react-workshop)

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Fundamentals%20%E2%9A%9B&e=05%3A%20Styling&em=ashley.mains%40mailchimp.com).
